So to get started with the code of CNN we want to go to 0 for CNN basic dash begin.
And as always we have the finished product in dash instructor.
But we want to start with the beginning so that you can code along.
So let's get it over here and take a look at this.
So we have the typical future import print function import num B and and b random dock seat.
So we have that plus we have a couple of imports over here.
So we are importing DCF data set.
We are also importing these sequential model dense layer activation layer and difficult layer.
Plus we have a new layer overhead which is gone 2D which is far too damaging convolution.
So we're going to import all of those our backsides is going to be 32.
We have 10 classes in the CFR dataset and we're going to restrict ourselves to five epochs for now.
We're going to increase that later on overhead.
We have the low data so that loads of data for us plus we go ahead and change the type to float and
we normalize the data as before and then we go ahead and alter the shapes.
So as you can see the shape is 50 thousand.
So that is the number of training samples that we have each image is 32 by 32.
And the number of channels is three.
So this now as you can see is a very large tensor.
So 500 data points 32 by 32 image each image being of three channels.
Right so our GNP and we have 10000 assembles.
Now what we want to do is we want to change the way train and right as to their 100 micro representations.
And finally we want to create our model.
So this is going to be a sequential model and we're going to go ahead and call this up.
So this is going to be our convolution neural network.
So we're going to have gone through these.
And the first thing that we need to tell is is the number of filters.
So we're going to create 16 filters.
So if you recall all here we had just two filters.
Now we're going to create 16 of these and each filter is going to be three across three.
So that's the basic information that we're going to give it.
We also want to give it what type of padding we have.
So here we have a zero padding.
We can have same bedding and there are other types as well.
It doesn't really make much of a difference at this moment at this point.
Also we need to tell you what the input shapes so input shape is going to be essentially the same as
the X strange shape.
So this guy over here this will be committed and will tell it what the input shape is and this is going
to be 32 by 32 by 3.
We can either do that or we can simply tell it that it's extreme shape and then one color.
So starting from the first index which is over here up until the end.
So this is going to be 32 across 32 across three.
So we can tell you what this shape is.
So let's go ahead and run this and then take a look at the model summary.
So as I discussed last time what we want to do is we want to make sure that we build one layer at a
time.
So let's go ahead and take a look at the model summary so as you can see after the application of the
convolution duty we're going to have a 32 by 32 by 16.
So this is the number of filters that we have.
So if you go back over here this was going to be the number of filters and because we have 16 filters
we had this as 16.
So now what we want to do is add a couple of more layers so we want to add more dot add and we're going
to say activation and the activation type that we want to use over here is called.
And let's see what really does.
If you recall we had sigmoid earlier and this is what it might look like.
So 1 4 very large values might 0 4 or very small values and for exactly zero we had point five.
Value is another type of activation function which looks like this.
So it's 0 4 0 and negative values.
And anything in the positive range.
It's exactly linear.
So that is why it is called a rectified linear unit.
So this is dealing in part and this is the rectification part right.
So anything that is less than or equal to zero becomes zero and anything beyond that is very lenient
is exactly linear.
So this looks very counterintuitive but really you is one of those things that has really made deep
learning work.
So it's a very important squishing function that you can use.
It's not technically squishing function because it's not squishing the values but it is an activation
function.
So let's go back over here and define our layers so we have the activation order here.
Then what we can do is we can see more of ADD and we can create another con to deliver.
And this again is going to have eight filters and if its size is again going to be three on the three.
So that is another complete.
Then we can do another one dot activation.
In fact let's go ahead and just copy this over and then we what we want is model dot ad and we want
to flatten out a little bit let's just go ahead and done this first.
So take a look at this.
So we have 32 by 32 by 16.
And because we are sliding it over We're going to get 30 by 30.
And then we have the number of murders which is eight.
Now if you recall this is 30 by 30 by eight.
So this let's go ahead and see what it looks like.
Right.
So over here we have the image which is 32 by 32.
And if we have the number of filters as at three it's this is going to be 32 by 32 by 3.
So 32 prostituted across three is going to be the volume.
So that is where these volumes come from in the convolution and neural network literature.
So this is going to be a 32 x 32 x 3 and this is going to be our volume.
So this is going to volume the problem over here is that at the end what we're going to have is a dense
layer.
Right.
So as before we can put a model that had dense and we can turn it into a number of classes but the problem
is and let's also put an activation order here.
So this activation is going to be some flex.
But the problem is dense layer is going to be needing something in 1 dimensions.
And here we have three dimensions.
So what we want to do is we want to say model dot and flatten.
So if you don't recall that.
Please go back to the case study videos and we covered this over there in detail.
So let's go ahead and run these and now you can see that after the flattened layer we have 30 multiplied
by 30 minute ahead.
So that's 30 30 into page.
So that is 70 to 100 total nodes.
And that is simply flattened to 70 200.
Then we do a dense layer of 10 nodes because that is a number of classes and then we do in activation
of sigmoid.
So that is our model that we currently have.
Then what we can do is we can go ahead and initialize and an optimizer.
So we use SCADA earlier on now we're using them as props so this is another one that works really well
for of our data sets and we compile it using the same categorical cross entropy and we give it the optimizer
that we just created and we tell it that it should report the accuracy.
So we can go ahead and run this.
Now since this is a fairly large dataset it's going to take quite a lot of time so I ran it ahead of
time and the accuracy that we're achieving over here is 51 percent.
So that's not very impressive.
The problem is that we need to do a lot more epochs.
I did just five epochs over here.
And because it was eating up my system I decided not to go ahead with it for instance like 100 bucks
I do have an alternative order.
So I went ahead and ran it on one of the Google machines.
So I am going to provide a link to a blog post that I have written that will tell you exactly how to
get access to this.
This notebook that is on the Google servers and it runs the.
And the code that is over here using tensor flow back end and on a jib you machine right.
So this is freely available.
I have a detailed tutorial that gives you step by step instructions on how you can access this as well.
So I ran it over here and it achieved a 59 percent accuracy on the other 100 ebooks.
Right.
So this is really good.
So 59 percent isn't all that impressive.
But the problem is that the model that we have already had is really simple actually if we can go ahead
and modify this model we can have a lot more power.
And in the next few videos we're going to go ahead and see what other things we can do with our model
that will increase our accuracy.